---
title: Time Frequency Array Signal Processing- Multi-Dimensional processing for non-stationary signals
speaker: Adel Belouchrani
affiliation: Ecole Nationale Polytechnique, Alger
date: 2016-05-20 10:30
location: Salle du conseil du L2S
perso: http://perso.enp.edu.dz/~belouchrani/
aside: true
---

###### Abstract
Conventional time-frequency analysis methods are being extended to
data arrays, and there is a potential for a great synergistic
development of new advanced tools by exploiting the joint properties
of time-frequency methods and array signal processing methods.
Conventional array signal processing assumes stationary signals and
mainly employs the covariance matrix of the data array. This
assumption is motivated by the crucial need in practice for estimating
sample statistics by resorting to temporal averaging under the
additional hypothesis of ergodic signals. When the frequency content
of the measured signals is time varying (i.e., nonstationary signals),
this class of approaches can still be applied. However, the achievable
performances in this case are reduced with respect to those that would
be achieved in a stationary environment. Instead of considering the
nonstationarity as a shortcoming, Time Frequency Array Processing
takes advantage of the nonstationarity by considering it as a source
of information in the design of efficient algorithms in such
environments. This talk deals with this relationship between time-
frequency methods and array signal processing methods. Recent results
on the performance analysis of the Time Frequency MUSIC algorithm will
be also presented. The speaker plans to address a broad audience with
general background in signal processing.

###### Biography
Adel Belouchrani was born in Algiers, Algeria, on May 5, 1967. He
received the State Engineering degree in 1991 from Ecole Nationale
Polytechnique (ENP), Algiers, Algeria, the M.S. degree in signal
processing from the Institut National Polytechnique de Grenoble
(INPG), France, in 1992, and the Ph.D. degree in signal and image
processing from Télécom Paris (ENST), France, in 1995. He was a
Visiting Scholar at the Electrical Engineering and Computer Sciences
Department, University of California, Berkeley, from 1995 to 1996. He
was with the Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering,
Villanova University, Villanova, PA, as a Research Associate from 1996
to 1997. From 1998 to 2005, he has been with the Electrical
Engineering Department of ENP as Associate Professor. He is currently
and since 2006 Full Professor at ENP. His research interests are in
statistical signal processing, (blind) array signal processing, time-
frequency analysis and time-frequency array signal processing with
applications in biomedical and telecommunications. Professor Adel
Belouchrani is an IEEE Senior Member and has published over 180
technical publications including 48 journal papers, 4 book chapters
and 4 patents that have been cited over 5400 times according Google
Scholar and over 2000 time according to ISI Web Of Science. He has
supervised over 19 PhD students. Professor Adel Belouchrani is
currently Associated Editor of the IEEE Transactions on Signal
Processing and Editorial board member of the Digital signal processing
Journal (Ed. Elsevier). He has been recently nominated as a founding
member of the Algerian Academy of Science and Technology.