---
title: Distributed Active and Passive MIMO Radar
speaker: Braham Himed
affiliation: Air Force Research Laboratory, Sensors Directorate, RF Technology Branch, Dayton, Ohio
date: 2019-06-12 14:00
location: Amphitéatre Janet (bât. Bréguet)
perso: None
aside: true
---

###### Abstract
Passive radar has received considerable interest in the past few
years. It is defined as a radar system that can detect and track
targets of interest by exploiting readily available, non‐cooperative
illuminators of opportunity. This is of great interest to many people
for both civilian and military applications, due to a number of
advantages. First, passive systems are substantially smaller and less
expensive compared to active radar systems because they do not need
their own transmitters. Second, the bistatic or multistatic
configuration enables it to obtain spatial diversity of the targets’
radar cross section, which leads to potential gains in detection and
classification capabilities. Finally, many illuminators of opportunity
are available for passive sensing, including analog and digital radio
and television. This talk will consider centralized detection in
distributed RF sensor networks. We present a comparative analysis of
the generalized likelihood ratio test (GLRT) detection in active and
passive networks including active multiple‐input multiple‐output
(MIMO) radar (AMR), passive MIMO radar (PMR), and passive source
localization (PSL). Our results demonstrate that PMR generalizes AMR
and PSL in that PMR detection sensitivity may approximate that of AMR
or PSL depending on the average direct‐path‐to‐noise ratio (DNR).
Thus, PMR may be regarded as the link between AMR and PSL sensor
networks that unifies them within a common theoretical framework.

###### Biography
Dr. Braham Himed received his “Ingénieur d’Etat” degree in electrical
engineering from Ecole Nationale Polytechnique of Algiers in 1984, and
his M.S. and Ph.D. degrees both in electrical engineering, from
Syracuse University, Syracuse, NY, in 1987 and 1990, respectively. Dr.
Himed currently serves as Division Research Fellow with the Air Force
Research Laboratory, Sensors Directorate, RF Technology Branch, in
Dayton Ohio, where he is involved with several aspects of airborne and
spaceborne phased array radar systems. Dr. Himed led the next
generation over the horizon radar (NGOTHR) technology risk reduction
initiative (TRRI), which was sponsored by the office of the secretary
of defense (OSD). Dr. Himed is the recipient of the 2001 IEEE region I
award for his work on bistatic radar systems, algorithm development,
and phenomenology. He is also the recipient of the 2012 IEEE Warren
White award for excellence in radar engineering. He is a Fellow of the
IEEE and serves as Past‐Chair on the IEEE AES Radar Systems Panel. Dr.
Himed is a Fellow of AFRL (class of 2013).