---
title: Robust approaches to multichannel sparse recovery
speaker: Esa Ollila
affiliation: Aalto University, Finland
date: 2015-02-03 10:30
location: None
perso: None
speakerdeck: https://speakerdeck.com/s3_seminar/esa-ollila
aside: true
---

###### Abstract
We consider multichannel sparse recovery problem where the objective
is to find good recovery of jointly sparse unknown signal vectors from
the given multiple measurement vectors which are different linear
combinations of the same known elementary vectors (atoms). The model
is thus an extension of single measurement vector setting used in
compressed sensing (CS). Many popular greedy or convex algorithms
proposed for multichannel sparse recovery problem perform poorly under
non-Gaussian heavy-tailed noise conditions or in the face of outliers
(gross errors), i.e., are not robust. In this talk, we consider
different types of mixed robust norms on data fidelity (residual
matrix) term and conventional L0-norm constraint on the signal matrix
to promote row-sparsity. We devise algorithms based normalized
iterative hard thresholding (blumesath and davies, 2010) which is a
simple, computationally efficient and scalable approach for solving
the simultaneous sparse approximation problem. Performance assessment
conducted on simulated data highlights the effectiveness of the
proposed approaches to cope with different noise environments (i.i.d.,
row i.i.d, etc) and outliers. Usefulness of the methods are
illustrated in image denoising problem and source localization
application with sensor arrays. Finally (if time permits) a (non-
robust) Bayesian perspective to multichannel recovery problem is
discussed as well.

###### Biography
Esa Ollila received the M.Sc. degree in mathematics from the
University of Oulu, in 1998, Ph.D. degree in statistics with honors
from the University of yvaskyla, in 2002, and the D.Sc.(Tech) degree
with honors in signal processing from Aalto University, in 2010. From
2004 to 2007 he was a post-doctoral fellow of the Academy of Finland.
He has also been a Senior Researcher and a Senior Lecturer at Aalto
University and University of Oulu, respectively. Currently, from
August 2010, he is appointed as an Academy Research Fellow of the
Academy of Finland at the Department of Signal Processing and
Acoustics, Aalto University, Finland. He is also adjunct Professor
(statistics) of University of Oulu. During the Fall-term 2001 he was a
Visiting Researcher with the Department of Statistics, Pennsylvania
State University, State College, PA while the academic year 2010-2011
he spent as a Visiting Research Associate with the Department of
Electrical Engineering, Princeton University, Princeton, NJ. His
research interests focus on theory and methods of statistical signal
processing, blind source separation, complex-valued signal processing,
array and radar signal processing and robust and non-parametric
statistical methods.