---
title: Material-by-Design for Synthesis, Modeling, and Simulation of Innovative Systems and Devices
speaker: Giacomo Oliveri
affiliation: ELEDIA, University of Trento
date: 2016-09-30 10:30
location: Salle du conseil du L2S
perso: None
aside: true
---

###### Abstract
Several new devices and architectures have been proposed in the last
decade to exploit the unique features of innovative artificially-
engineered materials (such as metamaterials, nanomaterials,
biomaterials) with important applications in science and engineering.
In such a framework, a new set of techniques belonging to the
Material-by-Design (MbD) framework [1]-[5] have been recently
introduced to synthesize innovative devices comprising task-oriented
artificial materials. MbD is an instance of the System-by-Design
paradigm [6][7] defined in short as “How to deal with complexity”.
More specifically, MbD considers the problem of designing artificial-
material enhanced-devices from a completely new perspective, that is
"The application-oriented synthesis of advanced systems comprising
artificial materials whose constituent properties are driven by the
device functional requirements". The aim of this seminar will be to
review the fundamentals, features, and potentialities of the MbD
paradigm, as well as to illustrate selected state-of-the-art
applications of this design framework in sensing and communications
scenarios.

###### Biography
Giacomo Oliveri received the B.S. and M.S. degrees in
Telecommunications Engineering and the PhD degree in Space Sciences
and Engineering from the University of Genoa, Italy, in 2003, 2005,
and 2009 respectively. He is currently an Tenure Track Associate
Professor at the Department of Information Engineering and Computer
Science (University of Trento), Professor at CentraleSupélec, member
of the Laboratoire des signaux et systèmes (L2S)@CentraleSupélec, and
member of the ELEDIA Research Center. He has been a visiting
researcher at L2S, Gif-sur-Yvette, France, in 2012, 2013, and 2015,
and he has been an Invited Associate Professor at the University of
Paris Sud, France, in 2014. In 2016, he has been awarded the "Jean
d'Alembert" Scholarship by the IDEX Université Paris-Saclay. He is
author/co-author of over 250 peer-reviewed papers on international
journals and conferences, which have been cited above 2200 times, and
his H-Index is 26 (source: Scopus). His research work is mainly
focused on electromagnetic direct and inverse problems, system-by-
design and metamaterials, compressive sensing techniques and
applications to electromagnetics, and antenna array synthesis. Dr.
Oliveri serves as an Associate Editor of the International Journal of
Antennas and Propagation, of the Microwave Processing journal, and of
the International Journal of Distributed Sensor Networks. He is the
Chair of the IEEE AP/ED/MTT North Italy Chapter.