---
title: Advances in data processing and machine learning in camera networks
speaker: Hichem Snoussi
affiliation: Prof. à l'université de technologique de Troyes
date: 2019-07-09 15:30
location: Amphitéatre Janet (bât. Breguet)
perso: None
aside: true
---

###### Abstract
The aim of this tutorial is to give an overview of recent advances in
distributed signal/image processing in wireless sensor networks. Over
the past few years, wireless sensor networks received tremendous
attention for monitoring physical phenomena and for target tracking in
a wide region or a critical infrastructure under surveillance. With
such systems, the automatic monitoring of an event or an incident is
based on the reliability of the network to provide an efficient and
robust decision-making. Applying conventional signal/image techniques
for distributed information processing is inappropriate for wireless
sensor networks, since the computational complexity scales badly with
the number of available sensors and their limited energy/memory
resources. For this purpose, collaborative information processing in
sensor networks is becoming a very attractive field of research. The
sensors have the ability to collaborate and exchange information to
ensure an optimal decision-making. In this tutorial, we review
recently proposed collaborative strategies for self-localization,
target tracking and nonlinear functional estimation (nonlinear
regression), in a distributed wireless sensor network. The
collaborative strategy ensures the efficiency and the robustness of
the data processing, while limiting the required communication
bandwidth. Signal processing challenges in mobile ad-hoc sensor
networks will also be considered in this tutorial.

###### Biography
Hichem Snoussi received the diploma degree in Electrical Engineering
from the Ecole Superieure d'Electricite (Supélec), Gif-sur-Yvette,
France, in 2000. He also received the DEA degree and the Ph.D. in
signal processing from the University of Paris-Sud, Orsay, France, in
2000 and 2003 respectively. Between 2003 and 2004, he was postdoctoral
researcher at IRCCyN, Institut de Recherches en Communications et
Cybernétiques de Nantes. He has spent short periods as visiting
scientist at the Brain Science Institute, RIKEN, Japan and Olin
Neuropsychiatry Research Center at the Institute of Living in USA.
Between 2005 and 2009, he was associate professor at the University of
Technology of Troyes, France. He has obtained the HDR degree from the
University of Technology of Compiègne in 2009. Since 2010, he is Full
Professor at the University of Technology of Troyes. His research
interests include Bayesian techniques for source separation,
information geometry, differential geometry, machine learning, robust
statistics, with application to brain signal processing, astrophysics,
advanced collaborative signal/image processing techniques in wireless
sensor/cameras networks, nuclear source detection, geolocalization and
tracking, security and surveillance,... Since 2010, he has been in
charge of the CapSec plateform (Sensors for Security). He is the
principal investigator of many ANR projects and industrial
partnerships. In 2009, he launched a new company Track&Catch on smart
embedded cameras for security and surveillance, where he is the
scientific director. In 2014, he co-founded an innovative company
Damavan Imaging on cutting-edge novel Gamma ray detectors for PET
imaging and Compton cameras for nuclear source reconstruction.