---
title: Novel Algorithms for Automated Diagnosis of Neurological and Psychiatric Disorders.
speaker: Hojjat ADELI
affiliation: The Ohio State University, Columbus, USA
date: 2017-03-28 10:30
location: Salle du conseil du L2S
perso: None
aside: true
---

###### Abstract
Novel algorithms are presented for data mining of time-series data and
automated electroencephalogram (EEG)-based diagnosis of neurological
and psychiatric disorders based on adroit integration of three
different computing technologies and problem solving paradigms: neural
networks, wavelets, and the chaos theory. Examples of the research
performed by the author and his associates for automated diagnosis of
epilepsy, the Alzheimer’s Disease, Attention Deficit Hyperactivity
Disorder (ADHD), autism spectrum disorder (ASD), and Parkinson’s
disease (PD) are reviewed.

###### Biography
Hojjat Adeli received his Ph.D. from Stanford University in 1976 at
the age of 26. He is Professor of Civil, Environmental, and Geodetic
Engineering, and by courtesy Professor of Biomedical Informatics,
Biomedical Engineering, Neuroscience, and Neurology at The Ohio State
University. He has authored over 550 publications including 15 books.
He is the Founder and Editor-in-Chief of international research
journals Computer-Aided Civil and Infrastructure, now in 32nd year of
publication, and Integrated Computer-Aided Engineering, now in 25th
year of publication, and the Editor-in-Chief of International Journal
of Neural Systems. In 1998 he received the Distinguished Scholar Award
from OSU, “in recognition of extraordinary accomplishment in research
and scholarship”. In 2005, he was elected Distinguished Member, ASCE:
"for wide-ranging, exceptional, and pioneering contributions to
computing in civil engineering and extraordinary leadership in
advancing the use of computing and information technologies in many
engineering disciplines throughout the world.” In 2010 he was profiled
as an Engineering Legend in the ASCE journal of Leadership and
Management in Engineering, and Wiley established the Hojjat Adeli
Award for Innovation in Computing. In 2011 World Scientific
established the Hojjat Adeli Award for Outstanding Contributions in
Neural Systems. He is a Fellow of IEEE, the American Association for
the Advancement of Science, American Neurological Society, and
American Institute for Medical and Biomedical Engineering. Among his
numerous awards and honors are a special medal from Polish Neural
Network Society, the Eduardo Renato Caianiello Award for Excellence in
Scientific Research from the Italian Society of Neural Networks, the
Omar Khayyam Research Excellence Award from Scientia Iranica, an
Honorary Doctorate from Vilnius Gediminas Technical University, and
corresponding member of the Spanish Royal Engineering Society.