---
title: Bayesian Fusion of Multiple Images - Beyond Pansharpening
speaker: Jean-Yves Tourneret
affiliation: Université de Toulouse, FR
date: 2015-11-13 10:30
location: None
perso: None
speakerdeck: https://speakerdeck.com/s3_seminar/jean-yves-tourneret
aside: true
---

###### Abstract
This presentation will discuss new methods for fusing high spectral
resolution images (such as hyperspectral images) and high spatial
resolution images (such as panchromatic images) in order to provide
images with improved spectral and spatial resolutions. These methods
are based on Bayesian estimators exploiting prior information about
the target image to be recovered, constructed by interpolation or by
using dictionary learning techniques. Different implementations based
on MCMC methods, optimization strategies or on the resolution of
Sylvester equations will be explored

###### Biography
Jean-Yves TOURNERET (SM08) received the ingenieur degree in electrical
engineering from the Ecole Nationale Supérieure d'Electronique,
d'Electrotechnique, d'Informatique, d'Hydraulique et des
Télécommunications (ENSEEIHT) de Toulouse in 1989 and the Ph.D. degree
from the National Polytechnic Institute from Toulouse in 1992. He is
currently a professor in the university of Toulouse (ENSEEIHT) and a
member of the IRIT laboratory (UMR 5505 of the CNRS). His research
activities are centered around statistical signal and image processing
with a particular interest to Bayesian and Markov chain Monte Carlo
(MCMC) methods. He has been involved in the organization of several
conferences including the European conference on signal processing
EUSIPCO'02 (program chair), the international conference ICASSP'06
(plenaries), the statistical signal processing workshop SSP'12
(international liaisons), the International Workshop on Computational
Advances in Multi-Sensor Adaptive Processing CAMSAP 2013 (local
arrangements), the statistical signal processing workshop SSP'2014
(special sessions), the workshop on machine learning for signal
processing MLSP'2014 (special sessions). He has been the general chair
of the CIMI workshop on optimization and statistics in image
processing hold in Toulouse in 2013 (with F. Malgouyres and D. Kouamé)
and of the International Workshop on Computational Advances in Multi-
Sensor Adaptive Processing CAMSAP 2015 (with P. Djuric). He has been a
member of different technical committees including the Signal
Processing Theory and Methods (SPTM) committee of the IEEE Signal
Processing Society (2001-2007, 2010-present). He has been serving as
an associate editor for the IEEE Transactions on Signal Processing
(2008-2011, 2015-present) and for the EURASIP journal on Signal
Processing (2013-present).