---
title: Bilevel optimisation approaches for learning the optimal noise model in mixed and non-standard image denoising applications
speaker: Luca Calatroni
affiliation: CMAP, École Polytechnique
date: 2018-12-04 10:30
location: Salle du conseil du L2S
perso: None
aside: true
---

###### Abstract
The regularised formulation of a general ill-posed inverse problem in
imaging typically combines an edge-preserving regularisation term
(like the Total Variation semi-norm) and a data fitting function
encoding noise statistics balanced against each other by a positive -
possibly space-variant - weight. The optimal choice of such parameter
is crucial to improve the image quality while avoiding overfitting,
and it is a very challenging problem among the inverse problem
community. When the noise level is known, classical approaches provide
an estimate of such parameter based on discrepancy principles, but in
many situations an accurate estimate of the noise intensity cannot be
provided. In this talk we review the framework of bilevel optimisation
as a powerful tool to estimate the optimal weighting where a training
set of examples is provided and no prior assumption on the noise level
is made. For the design of efficient optimisation techniques we employ
second-order large-scale and sampling techniques. The applications
will consider at first standard noise scenarios such as Gaussian,
impulsive and Poisson distributions, which are very common in medical,
microscopy and astronomy imaging. Finally, we will present more recent
developments in the case of noise mixtures and of Cauchy and Rician
noise settings, which are very typical, for instance, in SAR and MRI
imaging problems.

###### Biography
Luca Calatroni is a Lecteur Hadamard research fellow at the CMAP of
the École Polytechnique. He completed his PhD in November 2015 at the
Cambridge Image Analysis (CIA) research group under the supervision of
Carola-Bibiane Schönlieb in Cambridge, UK. After that, he has been an
Experienced Researcher (ER) Marie Sklodowska-Curie fellow within the
ITN Nano2fun for one year and started working at CMAP in October 2016.
His research interests lie in the fields of mathematical image
processing, variational modelling, non-smooth optimisation with
applications to real-world applications (such as cultural heritage
imaging or neuroscience). During his PhD he has been invited for a
research collaboration with J. C. De Los Reyes at ModeMat (Quito,
Ecuador) and more recently he has been invited at the University of
Bologna for a collaboration and enrolled for teaching a PhD course in
Spring 2019. He got the best paper award at the ICISP conference 2018.
He has been and is currently involved in several research projects
funded by EU (NoMADS EU RISE H2020 project), the CNRS (PEPS 2017 and
JCJC 2018 project) and the IHP institute (RiP 2018).