---
title: Modeling and mismodeling in radar applications- parameter estimation and bounds
speaker: Maria S. Greco
affiliation: Department of Information Engineering, University of Pisa, Italy
date: 2015-06-09 10:30
location: None
perso: None
speakerdeck: https://speakerdeck.com/s3_seminar/maria-s-greco
aside: true
---

###### Abstract
The problem of estimating a deterministic parameter vector of acquired
data is ubiquitous in signal processing applications. A fundamental
assumption underlying most estimation problems is that the true data
model and the model assumed to derive an estimation algorithm are the
same, that is, the model is correctly specified. This lecture will
focus on the general case in which, for some non-perfect knowledge of
the true data model or for operative constraints on the estimation
algorithm there is a mismatch between assumed and true data model.
After a short first part dedicated to explain the radar framework of
the estimation problem, the lecture will be dedicated to the
evaluation of lower bounds on the Mean Square Error of the estimate of
a deterministic parameter vector under misspecified model with
particular attention to Mismatched Maximum Likelihood estimator and
Huber bounds.

###### Biography
Maria S. Greco graduated in Electronic Engineering in 1993 and
received the Ph.D. degree in Telecommunication Engineering in 1998,
from University of Pisa, Italy. From December 1997 to May 1998 she
joined the Georgia Tech Research Institute, Atlanta, USA as a visiting
research scholar where she carried on research activity in the field
of radar detection in non-Gaussian background. In 1993 she joined the
Department of Information Engineering of the University of Pisa, where
she is Associate Professor since December 2011. She’s IEEE fellow
since January 2011 and she was co-recipient of the 2001 IEEE Aerospace
and Electronic Systems Society’s Barry Carlton Award for Best Paper
and recipient of the 2008 Fred Nathanson Young Engineer of the Year
award for contributions to signal processing, estimation, and
detection theory. She has been co-general-chair of the 2007
International Waveform Diversity and Design Conference (WDD07), Pisa,
Italy, in the Technical Committee of the 2006 EURASIP Signal and Image
Processing Conference (EUSIPCO), Florence, Italy, in the Technical
Committee of the 2008 IEEE Radar Conference, Rome, Italy, in the
Organizing Committee of CAMSAP09, Technical co-chair of CIP2010 (Elba
Island, Italy), General co-Chair of CAMSAP2011 (San Juan, Puerto
Rico), Publication Chair of ICASSP2014, Florence, Italy, Technical Co-
Chair of the CoSeRa2015, Pisa, Italy and Special Session Chair of
CAMSAP2015, Cancun, Mexico. She is lead guest editor of the special
issue on "Advanced Signal Processing for Radar Applications" to appear
on the IEEE Journal on Special Topics of Signal Processing, December
2015, she was guest co-editor of the special issue of the Journal of
the IEEE Signal Processing Society on Special Topics in Signal
Processing on "Adaptive Waveform Design for Agile Sensing and
Communication," published in June 2007 and lead guest editor of the
special issue of International Journal of Navigation and Observation
on” Modelling and Processing of Radar Signals for Earth Observation
published in August 2008. She’s Associate Editor of IET Proceedings –
Sonar, Radar and Navigation, Associate Editor-in-Chief of the IEEE
Aerospace and Electronic Systems Magazine, member of the Editorial
Board of the Springer Journal of Advances in Signal Processing (JASP),
Senior Editorial board member of IEEE Journal on Selected Topics of
Signal Processing (J-STSP), member of the IEEE Signal Array Processing
(SAM) Technical Committees. She's also member of the IEEE AES and IEEE
SP Board of Governors and Chair of the IEEE AESS Radar Panel. She's as
well SP Distinguished Lecturer for the years 2014-2015, AESS
Distinguished Lecturer for the years 2015-2016 and member of the IEEE
Fellow Committee. Maria is a coauthor of the tutorials entitled “Radar
Clutter Modeling”, presented at the International Radar Conference
(May 2005, Arlington, USA), “Sea and Ground Radar Clutter Modeling”
presented at 2008 IEEE Radar Conference (May 2008, Rome, Italy) and at
2012 IEEE Radar Conference (May 2012, Atlanta, USA), coauthor of the
tutorial "RF and digital components for highly-integrated low-power
radar" presented at the same conference, of the tutorial "Recent
Advances in Adaptive Radar Detection" presented at the 2014
International Radar Conference (October 2014, Lille, France) and co-
author of the tutorial "High Resolution Sea and Land Clutter Modeling
and analysis", presented at the 2015 IEEE International Radar
Conference (May 2015, Washington DC, USA). Her general interests are
in the areas of statistical signal processing, estimation and
detection theory. In particular, her research interests include
clutter models, spectral analysis, coherent and incoherent detection
in non-Gaussian clutter, CFAR techniques, radar waveform diversity and
bistatic/mustistatic active and passive radars. She co-authored many
book chapters and more than 150 journal and conference papers.