---
title: AI4SAR- Artificial Intelligence for Synthetic Aperture Radar
speaker: Mihai Datcu
affiliation: Remote Sensing Technology Institute (IMF), German Aerospace Center (DLR), University Politechnica Bucharest (UPB)
date: 2018-05-04 11:00
location: Salle du conseil du L2S
perso: None
aside: true
---

###### Abstract
The challenges of the Synthetic Aperture Radar (SAR) image formation
principles, the high data volume and the very high acquisition rate
stimulated from the very beginning the elaborations of sophisticated
techniques. Meanwhile the SAR technologies have immensely evolved. The
state of the art sensors deliver widely different imaging modes, and
have made considerable progress in spatial and radiometric resolution,
target acquisition strategies, or geographical coverage and data
rates. Generally imaging sensors generate an isomorphic representation
of the observed scene. This is not the case for SAR, the observations
are a doppelganger of the scattered field, an indirect signature of
the imaged object. This spots the load of SAR image understanding, and
the outmost challenge of Big SAR Data Science, as a new and particular
challenge of Machine Learning (ML) and Artificial Intelligence (AI).
The presentation reviews and analyses the new approaches of SAR
imaging leveraging the recent advances in physical process based ML
and AI methods and signal processing. This is leading to Computational
Imaging paradigms where intelligence is the analytical component of
the end-to-end sensor and Data Science chain design. A particular
focus is on the scientific methods of Deep Learning and an information
theoretical model of the SAR information extraction process.

###### Biography
Mihai Datcu received the M.S. and Ph.D. degrees in Electronics and
Telecommunications from the University Politechnica Bucharest UPB,
Romania, in 1978 and 1986. In 1999 he received the title Habilitation
Ã  diriger des recherches in Computer Science from University Louis
Pasteur, Strasbourg, France. Currently he is Senior Scientist and
Image Mining research group leader with the Remote Sensing Technology
Institute (IMF) of the German Aerospace Center (DLR),
Oberpfaffenhofen, and Professor with the Department of Applied
Electronics and Information Engineering, Faculty of Electronics,
Telecommunications and Information Technology, UPB. From 1992 to 2002
he had a longer Invited Professor assignment with the Swiss Federal
Institute of Technology, ETH Zurich. From 2005 to 2013 he has been
Professor holder of the DLR-CNES Chair at ParisTech, Paris Institute
of Technology, Telecom Paris. His interests are in Data Science,
Machine Learning and Artificial Intelligence, and Computational
Imaging for space applications. He is involved in Big Data from Space
European, ESA, NASA and national research programs and projects. He is
a member of the ESA Big Data from Space Working Group. He received in
2006 the Best Paper Award, IEEE Geoscience and Remote Sensing Society
Prize, in 2008 the National Order of Merit with the rank of Knight,
for outstanding international research results, awarded by the
President of Romania, and in 1987 the Romanian Academy Prize Traian
Vuia for the development of SAADI image analysis system and activity
in image processing. He is IEEE Fellow. He is holder of a 2017 Blaise
Pascal Chair at CEDRIC, CNAM.