---
title: The method of brackets
speaker: Victor H. Moll
affiliation: Departement of Mathematics, Tulane University, New Orleans, USA
date: 2015-07-03 10:30
location: None
perso: None
aside: true
---

###### Abstract
A new heuristic method for the evaluation of definite integrals is
presented. This method of brackets has its origin in methods developed
for the evaluation of Feynman diagrams. We describe the operational
rules and illustrate the method with several examples. The method of
brackets reduces the evaluation of a large class of definite integrals
to the solution of a linear system of equations.

###### Biography
Victor H. Moll studied under Henry McKean at the Courant Institute,
graduated in 1984 with a thesis on the Stabilization of the standing
wave in a caricature for nerve conduction. This so-called caricature
had been proposed by McKean as a simpler model from the classical
Nagumo and Hodgkin-Huxley models. After graduation, he spent two years
as a Lawton instructor at Temple University. In 1986 he moved to
Tulane University, New Orleans, where he is now a Professor of
Mathematics. He is interested in all aspects of the mathematics coming
from the evaluation of integrals. The subject is full of interesting
problems that he shares with colleagues, graduate and undergraduate
students. Among the variety of results that have come out of this
work, one should mention the theory of Landen transformations that are
the rational version of the well-known transformations of Landen and
Gauss for elliptic integrals. His long term project is to provide
proofs, automatic and human of all entries in the classical table of
Integrals by I. S. Gradshteyn and I. M. Ryzhik. Most of his work comes
from exploring, via symbolic languages, unexpected relations among
classical objects. Some of his work has been written in the book
Numbers and Functions published in the Student Mathematical Library
series from AMS. He is actively involved with bringing undergraduates
into Mathematics. He has guided undergraduate research at Tulane
University and also was the research leader at the REU programs SIMU
(at the University of Puerto Rico at Humacao 2000 and 2002) and at
MSRI-UP, Berkeley (2008 and 2014). A large number of his students have
continued to graduate school in Mathematics.