---
title: On Imaging Methods of Material Structures with Different Boundary Conditions.
speaker: Xiuzhu YE
affiliation: Beihang University, Beijing, China
date: 2017-03-10 10:30
location: Salle du conseil du L2S
perso: None
aside: true
---

###### Abstract
This talk is about the two-dimensional inverse scattering problems for
different kinds of boundary conditions. Firstly, we propose a perfect
electric conductor (PEC) inverse scattering approach, which is able to
reconstruct PEC objects of arbitrary number and shape without
requiring prior information on the approximate locations or the number
of the unknown scatterers. Secondly, the modeling scheme of the
T-matrix method is introduced to solve the challenging problem of
reconstructing a mixture of both PEC and dielectric scatterers
together. Then the method is further extended to the case of
scatterers with four boundary conditions together. Last, we propose a
method to solve the dielectric and mixed boundary through-wall imaging
problem. Various numerical simulations and experiments are carried out
to validate the proposed methods.

###### Biography
Xiuzhu YE was born in Heilongjiang, China, in December 1986. She
received the Bachelor degree of Communication Engineering from Harbin
Institute of Technology, China, in July 2008 and the Ph.D. degree from
the National University of Singapore, Singapore, in April 2012. From
February 2012 to January 2013, she worked in the Department E.C.E.,
National University of Singapore, as a Research Fellow. Currently, she
is Assistant Professor in the School of Electronic and Information
Engineering of the Beihang University. She has been and is engaged
under various guises with Ecole Centrale de Pékin (ECPK) also. She is
presently benefiting from an invited professorship position at
University Paris-Sud and later this Summer 2017 she will be benefiting
from an invited professorship position at CentraleSupélec, both within
the Laboratoire des Signaux et Systèmes, jointly Centre National de la
Recherche Scientifique (CNRS), CentraleSupélec, and Université Paris-
Sud, Université Paris-Saclay, Gif-sur-Yvette, France. Her current
research interest mainly includes fast algorithms in solving inverse
scattering problems, near field imaging, biomedical imaging, and
antenna designing.